# Solar-Flare-Prediction-from-Time-Series-of-Solar-Magnetic-Field-Parameters

The goal of this dataset competition is to introduce the machine learning/data mining community to an integrated dataset that can be utilized for predicting and understanding solar flares. Solar flares and Coronal Mass Ejections (CMEs) [1, 2, 3] are events occurring in the solar corona and heliosphere that can have a major negative impact on our technology dependent society [4]. Electromagnetic radiation and ionized particles from solar flares and eruptions tend to be filtered out by Earth’s atmosphere, but they can still pose a hazard to astronauts and sensitive equipment in space, as well as disrupt various high frequency radio communications that military and civilian customers become increasingly reliant upon each year. A strong enough CME can also cause significant enough fluctuations in Earth’s magnetosphere to induce currents in large networks of conductive materials such as power grids. These induced currents can lead to surges that have the potential to melt transformers of long distance transmission lines causing large scale blackouts. A 2008 report by the National Research Council concluded that a solar superstorm, similar to one observed in 1857 called the Carrington event [5], could cripple the entire US power grid for months and lead to an economic damage of 1 to 2 trillion dollars [6].

# Data

The data in each of the following files are formatted as sets of json objects. Each one containing a unique identifier within the file, a class label if one of the training folds, and an array of time series values used for prediction. Each sample multi-variate time series has 60 values representing an observation taken at 12-minute intervals. The first value in the array is the sample observation taken at the furthest point in time from the predication period and the last value in the array is the sample observation taken at the closest point in time to the prediction period. The period of observations represented by each labeled time series is a 12 hour window of observations sliced from a longer time series.

[link](https://www.kaggle.com/c/bigdata2019-flare-prediction/data)
